hello again everyone Laszlo Montgomery
here thanks for downloading this latest
edition of the China history podcast
last week we looked at the chain dynasty
from 1800 to 1853 it was a time of great
internal suffering in China all the
greatest hits of China's sorrows were
all happening simultaneously natural
disasters corruption on a debilitating
scale inflation social problems peasant
discontent and beyond all this
accumulated misery you had widespread
opium addiction rebellions in central
China and in the frontier plus foreign
aggression in the form of demands for
more open trade and the Western powers
mainly Great Britain France in the u.s.
they backed up their demands with all
the firepower and weapons that the
Industrial Revolution had yielded up to
this point and as bad as this time
period was the next 50 years will be no
better in fact the entire 19th century
was a 100 year long migraine headache
for China we left off last time as the
Taiping rebels left their stronghold and
young on and marched on Nanjing taking
Wu Chun first in January of 1853
following this the Taiping rebel army
has taken the ancient Ming capital of
Nanjing in march of 1853 it is then
renamed to tin Qing everything is tin
this and tin that with the Hong Chen he
was the tin Wong the heavenly king of
the tin quoi or heavenly kingdom and he
is now setting the movement up in Tim
Ching the heavenly capital so I guess he
could figure out what 10 means we'll
resume our sad story right here as
Hangzhou train enters Nanjing carried on
a golden palanquin wearing his Imperial
yellow robes and the crown of a
Christian King and he then takes up
residence in the former Ming palace
where Julian Chung set himself up five
hundred years before and it was here in
Nanjing that the administrative and
nerve center for the type in 10 quoi
heavenly kingdom of great peace remained
until the whole thing went down in a
blaze of guts and glory in 1864 but
we're in March of 1853 now and from the
time of Hangzhou Chen's nervous
breakdown or whatever it was back in
1836 seventeen years have passed he's
gone from four-time civil service exam
loser to king of his own country and son
of God to boot the country is in
disarray now and the shock waves hitting
the Forbidden City were substantial the
Ching army was no more successful
dealing with these Taiping rebels than
they were dealing with Brittany that's
how badly the army had degraded but
we'll see soon that this problem gets
addressed later on so the government is
shocked and awed and the military seems
impotent to halt this force of a million
rebels so does home keep the momentum
going and march north on Beijing to
deliver the knockout punch and it's the
perfect time he's got them on the run
and things are sufficiently in disarray
up there to the extent that he could
just march right in like Lisa Chun did
in 1644 does he do this of course not to
home this wasn't a moment to attack so
much it was a time to savor the fruits
of victory and explore the benefits of
being a game so even though homes Creed
was most puritanical in almost every way
despite all this preaching and
segregation of the sexes and all these
rules and calls for austerity and
collective wealth their collective
poverty whatever the result might be
even though he taught this game in truth
wholly immersed himself in a world of
sex and debauchery wherever he went he
was carried on a sedan chair he had
endless pretensions to glory royalty and
he was like these like these African
hardcore dictators of the 80s with all
this pomp and Majesty he surrounds
himself with concubines and female
assistants all his chief palace
officials are all women so Hong Show
trend the heavenly King hangs back at
Nanjing a couple months and makes all
kinds of pronouncements and starts
organizing all the elites and super
elites he's passing out titles and king
ships like there was no too
the elites of the movement were the core
group of four hips about 20,000 who had
been with homes since the very beginning
from the guanxi days this core group
mostly all haka of course became the top
guys in the movement and those closest
to the top of the pyramid enjoyed
fabulous perks such as any member of
royalty might expect so home spends his
time enjoying himself and formulating
how the heavenly kingdom was to restore
an all Han rural China free of any taint
of Manchu intrusion it is decided after
a couple of weeks or so that two
expeditions will be sent to the north
and to the west to bring down the chain
so it's the spring of 1853 and we see
the launch of the Tai ping northern
expedition and the Tai ping Western
expedition in short the northern
expedition is a complete failure started
off good they took young Cho and on
April 1st 1853 and continued marching
north always gaining in numbers to swell
their ranks there was another large
scale rebellion also going on in the
north that I mentioned in the last
episode this was in yen rebellion and
we'll get to that in a minute the
northern Thai ping army and Lin yen
rebels made some efforts to join
together to defeat their common enemy
but nothing ever came of it and these
rebellions remained independent of each
other and were therefore only half as
effective against the Ching arm is as
they could have been by the time the Tai
ping army reached in June they were way
way overextended and not in good shape
the scourge of many an army going back
to ancient times cold and hunger took
its toll on the Tai ping northern
expedition army they were severely
beaten back and by 1854 they are
cornered in Shandong and are wiped out
the Taiping western expedition forces
fared a little better
they left Nanjing on May 19th 1853 they
took on Ching in on play then from there
they split into two groups one of those
armies took the city of Zhang Han in
April of 1854 Zhang Han is in Hunan a
mere one hour away by car from Mao
Zedong's birthplace of sha Shan
about this time the Taiping rebellion
peaks for the fortunes of hong and his
heavenly kingdom from here on out decay
sets in that is much faster acting than
the decay that hit the Ching dynasty the
fortunes of the Taiping rebels begin to
slide starting around the middle of 1854
you see while the Taiping armies are
braving it out on the battlefield things
back in Nanjing we're not going too well
the topmost layer of the Taiping
leadership was afflicted with
factionalism of the worst sort you had
all these kings who were the closest
people the hong seokcheon the eastern
king was the most powerful of all these
kings this was young Xiao Qing he starts
to get a little too powerful for his own
good so Hong becomes weary of him and
begins to see him as a threat the
northern King was way Chiang way and the
so-called assistant King was sure kite
both of them also view young Xiao Jing
as a threat there's a period of
jockeying for power and maneuverings
behind the scenes on September 2nd 1856
the northern King which hung way bumps
off the eastern King a young show Ching
with his entire family young being a
rival to Hong Show train and all it's
assumed that he had his hand in the
whole ordeal so young so Ching is now
gone and now the two allies wait
chunghae and shirk i they turn on each
other and in the end sure doc i prevails
by this time the only ones left in the
inner core of the type hing leadership
were home sure doc I in homes two
brothers Brenda and renfa these two
siblings acted as hones minders and
handlers and by this time home was
altogether unstable and irrational
no one except his concubines and his
most trusted family members ever saw him
he was a total wreck the foreigners had
already given up on the tight Kings as a
movement that they could get behind
once everyone saw how off the charts
crazy home was and how much's version of
Christianity differed from the religion
they were all familiar with they began
to walk away from him
they remained neutral for the time being
but in the end were disappointed at how
this typing tianhua thing it turned out
sure doc I was suspicious of Holmes two
brothers and feared that they were
colluding against him so he takes off
and heads west and we'll see later one
of the reasons the Taiping heavenly
kingdom failed was because of all this
instability at the top no one trusted
anyone in this shakiness at the top led
to the ultimate failure of the movement
the Qing government recognized their
severe limitations and took stock of
their situation and ineffectiveness and
suppressing the Taiping rebels they
turned to a group of people in the
provinces who viewed Hangzhou Chen and
his typing rebel movement as a common
enemy the Confucian literati gentry and
aristocrats out of the provinces were
aghast at the Taiping rebels iconoclasm
against Confucian ways and traditions
the Taipings with their screwing mixture
of the Bible and Holmes visions of what
China should be were an athame to these
traditional Confucian as' yet a number
of small militias organized to protect
the interests of the conservative
Confucian elites and just plain old
bureaucrats elites and literati they hid
the most to lose if the Taipings
successfully took control of the central
government
so these rich Confucian and conservative
elements did not support the Tai ping
and funded all these local militias from
the ranks of these hung traditional
Confucian scholar military leaders three
names you should know preeminent among
them was some cool fun followed by his
protege and a man we will hear a lot
about in the next episode as well li
hung-chang
the third was thoughts only tongue now
this general Zod's Hong Kong you've all
heard of him perhaps if you ever went to
your local Chinese restaurant I saw the
favorite sweet and spicy Hunan dish
General Tso's chicken this is the
general saw from whom the dish
originated little fun fact for you let's
look at the most important one son koala
fun son was a mountain
through-and-through born raised and
educated in hold on he was an official
served the Ching dynasty well and was
also a scholar of Confucianism and a
great military strategist when called
upon by the government he used his own
connections and resources to raise an
army of Hunan peasants in this army
which became known as the Xiang army or
Zhang Jun became a well trained well
organized and very effective fighting
force that beat back the Taiping rebels
repeatedly now the words young first
tone is an abbreviated way to say Hunan
every province in China has a single
character that's used to abbreviate the
name of the province for example on
license plates in China you'll see a
single character plus the plate number
to show in which province the car is
registered the character for Hunan was
young since its Sun Quan was Hunan ease
and the peasants mostly all came from
Hunan it was simply called this young
army although they had a bad start this
young army took back the key cities of
Changsha the Hunan capital as well as Wu
Chun conn-young honk OH which are the
cities that make up the area known as
Wuhan he also defeated the Taiping Navy
soundly so this young army breathed new
life into the Ching dynasty it was only
meant to deal with matters in Hunan but
due to its smashing success
these young army became the core of the
newly rejuvenated Ching army now there's
quite a bit going on in China
concurrently it's not easy to explain
all this linearly because while Hong Co
Tran and his gang are down in the South
doing their things there are other major
events also taking place you had a
devastating change of course of the
Yellow River it did this from time to
time throughout Chinese history and it
did it again in 1855
and believe it or not it took 15 years
before Shandong Province recovered from
this change of course by China's sorrow
the Yellow River I mentioned in the last
podcast episode there was also a
rebellion known as the yen rebellion in
1851 to 1868 let's talk about this one
for a minute this was all going on
concurrent with the Taiping rebellion
the two rebellions never join hands to
defeat their common enemy
this particular disturbance happened in
the north of China the Taiping rebellion
was a southern movement then yen had
zero religious affiliation they had no
politics one way or another there wasn't
any one single leader initially it was a
conglomeration of many bands of rebels
all separate they were initially
inspired by the old White Lotus Society
they also had very few if any goals
other than to overthrow the Chiang and
get rid of the Manchus they dyed their
beards red which was the symbolic color
of the Ming Dynasty their core member
was either a poor peasant a member of a
secret society or both I also read that
because of the female infanticide that
was prevalent during this time there was
a 20% shortage of girls in the north and
so a lot of these men who couldn't find
wives back then just ended up joining up
with the local nian rebels so this
rebellion didn't have all the drama and
baggage of the Taipings but they did
control vast stretches of northern China
pose no less a challenge to the chain
dynasty than did the Taipings
these guys were all about looting and
pillaging the nian rebels they preyed on
anyone who had anything to take as in
the south you had the development of
local militias who would band together
to fight these in the end whenever they
might come to their village to see what
wealth there might be to snatch so by
1851 this movement became big enough
where it caught the eye of the Qin
government and then as I said in 1855
the Yellow River floods like crazy and
brings more misery to the region which
of course swells the ranks of hopeless
disaffected and dirt poor rebels in 1852
these yen really start to organize for
the first time they select from among
the ranks of 18 yen groups Chang Liu Xin
he becomes the top guy in the movement
and has given the title great Han Prince
and by 1856 he's named Lord of the
Alliance the fighters under his control
only numbered about 30 to 50,000 but
these are all veteran troops who were
very effective and brutal when it came
to fighting and rampaging all over the
country
the battles between the Indian rebels
and the Ching army were all guerilla
warfare skirmishes the Ching said some
were fine up north to deal with them but
surprisingly sung fails so the task then
falls on songs protege li hung-chang li
fought a slow steady war of attrition
within yen by 1868 four years after the
Taipings were subdued then Yen rebels
were in utter disarray and the top
leadership of the movement was all
divided solely Hong Kong's army was very
well supplied and with the latest
Western firepower and eventually they
war than Yente down and in April of 1868
the rebellion was officially over so
this makes a hero out of the Hong Chung
and he is given the honorary title grand
guardian of the heir apparent so let's
jump back to what's happening with the
Taiping rebellion down in the south
let's go back to April of 1859 it's been
six years since Nam Jin has been taken
by the victorious Taiping rebels success
has been mixed up till now the only true
success they could claim was throwing
the country and the Qing government into
disarray but internal fighting and
backstabbing at the highest level has
caused the movement to falter it needed
a calm voice of reason to set everything
back on a steady course and seize the
initiative again on April 22nd 1859 Hong
roentgen arrives in Nanjing he is Hong
so trans younger cousin who had not
participated in the movement up till now
home run gun had been living in Hong
Kong all this time
heavily involved in the Christian
missionary movement down there home
Rangoon arrived in Nanjing or tnj as
it's called now and he had two things on
his mind first was to educate the
Taipings about true Christian faith and
the real teachings of Jesus the second
thing that he had set out to do was to
reach out to the foreigners more and
obtain their support and recognition
home ran gun acted as a sort of foreign
minister for the Taiping movement so he
comes to town the cousin of the Tai ping
leader and his head is filled with all
these ideas about reform
remember he's been in Hong Kong all this
time and had a lot of experience dealing
with foreigners and studying Western
ways and values up close it's around
this time in 1859 1860 there abouts that
homeshow Tran really starts to decline
in health both physically and mentally
home roentgen assumes the role of the
heavenly king spokesman now there were
also other remaining kings to deal with
the heroic king and the loyal king
remember hong show trenton had created
several kings
north-south-east-west assistant heroic
loyal so these two kings the show Cheung
and Chang Chung they're weary of the
heavenly Kings family relative and they
more or less do whatever they can to
prevent anything hungry GaN wants to do
to improve the fortunes of the movement
and of China his efforts during this
time sort of earned him a place in
history as one of China's first
nationalist reformers both the
Communists and nationalists saw him in a
positive light for his sincere efforts
to rescue China at a time of terrible
tragedy and gloom the Taiping are
starting to gather some momentum despite
the chaos at the top of the leadership
now they set their sights on Shanghai
the foreigners didn't want that they've
been neutral all this time but now that
commercial interests were threatened by
a Taiping rebel march on Shanghai now
the foreigners decided to take sides
they sided with the chain better to keep
propping these guys up and risk
everything they fought for fall apart in
the face of the radical Taiping rebels
and their crazy leader so 1860 a pivotal
year in the history of the Taipings
so let's stop for a second and we'll
come back to this final phase of the
Taiping rebellion beginning in 1860 when
the foreigners join in the fray for now
let's rewind the clock back to 1856 1860
what we have here is best known as the
Second Opium War but also called the
arrow war it all actually began in 1854
twelve years after the Treaty of Nanjing
had been signed that ended the First
Opium War the time had come to
renegotiate
the Chinese side was completely
contemptuous of the treaty because it
was so one-sided from any angle you
looked at it so they had dug their heels
and hard as far as honoring it and by
1854 the British are not happy with how
things are going so when it came time to
renegotiate here's what the British
wanted one access to the entire interior
of China if this was not acceptable then
at least total access must be given to
the entire coast of judging and up the
eunsuh to Nanjing Chung is the province
in China that has all the plum cities
like Shanghai
at the very top Nimoy told shun Hangzhou
when Joe Sheng very rich pickings in
this province and even today this is the
richest or one of the richest provinces
in China - they wanted legalization of
the opium trade they came right out and
demanded it knowing full well how
sensitive this issue was with the China
government not to mention good
Christians back in England 3 all the
irritating internal transit duties on
imports had to be cancelled for British
get to keep a full-time ambassador in
Beijing and believe it or not of all the
demands this was the one who Qin when
craziest over and number 5 if all these
terms weren't degrading enough to the
Chinese English had to become the
official language for all treaties
entered into and the Chinese they could
scream and rant fuss all they wanted to
but the truth remained these foreigners
had some fearsome weapons and if they
unleashed all this power against the
chain forces there was gonna be no
stopping them and on top of all this the
Qing armies were stretched thin trying
to put down these rebellions and revolts
all over the place so they were delays
and delays and hemming and hawing about
the negotiations until April 8th 1856 by
this time the British were simply
itching for an excuse to launch a war to
get what they wanted so on this day a
Lord Zhao with Hong Kong registry and
flying the British flag of convenience
was legally boarded by Qin government
official the vessel the arrow
suspected of the usual smuggling and
whatnot 12 crew members were arrested
all of them Chinese and the British make
a big fuss and Guangzhou about this and
at last they have their Casas ballet and
this incident sparks the Aero war also
called the Second Opium War the first
thing the British do is seize Guangzhou
cam time this was in December 1857 the
Taiping rebellion is raging in full fury
right now so whatever happens with the
British the Ching knows they're in no
position to do anything to prevent or
even slow down the inevitable
now remember besides having to deal with
the Taiping rebellion and the British
who are smashing and grabbing whatever
they want
then young rebels are still doing their
thing up north the Yellow River is a
wreck and it's a terrible time to be
living in Shandong I haven't mentioned
this yet but down in the southwest and
good old Yunnan Province there's also a
very serious revolt going on down there
too so the chain government is in a very
tight spot by all accounts so they have
their hands full on the British knowit's
and they're about to let the Chinese
have it after Canton Falls at the end of
1857 the British forces simply repeat
the tried-and-true method used last time
in the First Opium War and start
marching north towards the capital the
Baku fort or Taku pulp high is taken
this is just south of 10g so now the
British are right within striking
distance of Beijing it's worth
mentioning that when the British fought
at the daka fort it didn't go very well
at first and they had to call in the
Americans to help them out
Commodore Jones I attack now the skipper
of the American vessel came to the
assistance of the British in in his
famous reply back to Washington Tattnall
wrote that quote blood was thicker than
water to justify this decision to drop
u.s. neutrality and help out their
British cousins the good old special
relationship was just getting started
the upshot to all this was another
unequal treaty that infuriated the
Chinese this time it was the Treaty of
10 gin in 1858 the terms were won a
British ambassador can reside in Beijing
to Christian missionary work was
protected three with a valid passport
one could travel anywhere they wanted in
China for if a person did not carry a
passport they could still wander freely
within 30 miles of a treaty port a 5-4
new treaty ports were opened along the
answer in Hangzhou Joe Cheng Nanjing and
Jen Jen six six additional treaty ports
were opened up to each in Taiwan and one
each in Manchuria Shandong Guangdong and
Hainan seven all future interior transit
taxes on foreign goods were set at a
flat rate of two and a half percent
eight standard weights and measures were
adopted 9 all official communication
between Britain and China was to be in
English and 10 the character yi used all
the time by the Chinese and official
communications was forbidden to be used
anymore
he was the word for foreigners and it
basically meant barbarian then lastly
the matter of opium was addressed and
moving forward and went like this quote
opium will henceforth pay 30 taels per
pickle a pickle is a hundred thirty
pounds the importer will sell it only at
the port it will be carried into the
interior by Chinese only and only as
Chinese property the foreign trader will
not be allowed to accompany it so
basically opium was officially legal to
export to China but as a consolation the
British were saying that you know we'll
just give it to you at the port and you
guys can handle everything on the
distribution end this whole bill of
goods as you can imagine didn't sit well
with the Emperor I know we've been going
back and forth during this time the sham
Fung Emperor he said on the throne
during this time he was the son of the
dog Wong Emperor the dog Wong Emperor of
course had to deal with the First Opium
War in its immediate aftermath now the
son has his own brush with the foreign
Devils to deal with the shim Fung
Emperor reigned from 1850 to 1861 so
it's this Emperor who truly has to be
wringing his hands wondering how did he
get stuck ruling in such a tumultuous
time
period not only did he have to deal with
the Second Opium War he got the full
brunt of the Taiping rebellion plus the
nyan uprising and part of his reign also
witnessed the uprisings in Yunnan as
well as a full-scale outbreak there of
bubonic plague that killed millions both
in India and in China the good old days
of Kangxi Yuen Chung and chin long
seemed like ages ago everything started
to slide during the second half of Qin
Long's reign and now by 1860 if it all
come down to this
so this Treaty of Tianjin takes a fact
than the Chinese really do not like the
idea of a full-time British
representative based in Beijing they
made a lot of noise about this and sat
on their hands and the British they got
infuriated so they sent a delegation to
Beijing to see what's up with that why
is this all taking so long
well these guys got all roughed up and a
few of them were killed so now it was
time for the British to teach the Ching
Emperor a lesson Lord Elgin Britain's
chief negotiators selected lead the
punitive attack on Beijing on October
18th 1860
the UN mingun built by chin long and
designed in part by Jesuit architects in
one of the greatest cultural
catastrophes of all time was burned and
destroyed the Chien Fong Emperor he
flees Beijing for the safety of
Manchuria his younger brother Prince
Kong is left in charge to deal with the
aftermath Prince Gong will talk more
about the next podcast the Summer Palace
was burned down looted fares were that
the Imperial Palace was net so Prince
Gong were negotiated with the British
and reaffirmed the unequal and
humiliating Treaty of Tianjin and then
to rub salt in the wound the Emperor had
to express his deep regret at what
happened to the British negotiators who
had been sent to the palace and got all
manhandled in addition to this they had
to pay an indemnity of 8 million taels
of silver and had to agree to allow
Chinese to emigrate on British ship
the British of course were out for that
labour the word was used
for Asian laborers namely of Chinese or
Indian origin comes from the two Chinese
characters ku and Li meaning bitter
labor in addition to all this the
British were able to get more territory
in Hong Kong and were ceded the Kowloon
Peninsula the Shan Fung Emperor died
shortly after this all went down and
passes from this earth before his time
on August 22nd 1861 he died a bitter and
defeated man no Doubt's no me live to
the age of 30 next up was his son only
five years old at the time and he
becomes the Tony chair Emperor this boy
Emperor will take us only up to 1875
before he dies of smallpox at the age of
18 he's not important it's the one who
is controlling him who had all the power
and this of course was his mother the
most infamous Empress Dowager in all of
China's long history sushi tae ho we're
going to look more at her next week
there are many notorious female
personages from Chinese history the
Empress Dowager Tzu she is definitely
right up there with Empress knew of the
Western Han Dynasty roots a 10 of the
Tong and of course she's been compared a
million times to Chairman Mao's last
wife Zhang Sheng there was one other
rebellion I haven't mentioned it begins
right after the death of the Shen Fung
Emperor this one was in the northwest
and Xin Jiang province and this was a
Muslim revolt that got real messy around
1862 this one raged till November 1873
and when this last revolt has finally
put down that's the end of it
this long nightmare for China finally
came to an end
or did it no it most definitely did not
although we have what's known as the
tone chair restoration China still has
not woken up from this long nightmare in
the mid 1860s after the Thai pings were
vanquished and after then Yin were put
down in the north after the humiliating
Treaty of Tianjin
there was a general feeling among
certain high ups in the Imperial
leadership
China had to do something fast next week
we will look at the life of the Empress
dowager's issue and we will also look at
this Ching restoration or Tony J
restoration which sort of ran out of gas
around 1875 or so it seemed as if the
Ching we're gonna make a comeback but as
we'll see they were too committed to
restoring their past glory rather than
to find their place in the new modern
world and this is how it's gonna be for
the Ching rulers all the way up to the
bitter end in 1912
so let's wind things up here and sort of
look at the bitter and bloody end of the
Taiping rebellion what were the
consequences why did it fail and so
forth Karl Marx said something
interesting worth repeating like many
other Europeans he was intrigued by them
at first and thought highly of them but
after he saw what they were really all
about he wrote quote what is original in
this Chinese Revolution are only its
bearers they are not conscious of any
task except the change of dynasty they
have no slogans they are an even greater
scourge to the population than the old
rulers it seems their vocation is
nothing else than to set against the
conservative disintegration of China its
destruction in grotesque horrifying form
without any seeds for a renaissance as I
said after Hong roentgen arrives in
Nanjing and attempts to reform
everything about the Taipei movement
it's decided to march on Shanghai I
mentioned the foreign powers sought no
possible benefit from having these anti
opium smoking rebels converging on the
commercial center that Shanghai was fast
becoming the city had come quite far
since the Treaty of Nanjing in 1842 it
was now divided into a Chinese walled
city a French Concession
and an international settlement
administered and controlled by Great
Britain fully one-half of all the
foreign trade in China was done in this
city so when it was learnt in 1861 that
the Taipings were coming all the sudden
the new five year old Qing Emperor it
didn't sound like such a bad option and
so in cooperation with the chain
government a volunteer corps is
established this fighting force had the
job of backing up Lee Hong Jong effort
with his fly army against the Taipings
it was Frederic Townsend Ward who
initially set up this force and led it
until he's killed in 1863 and replaced
by the more famous of the leaders
General Charles Gordon Gordon was
present when the summer palace was razed
he's known in history as Chinese Gordon
and of course attained immortality dying
at the hands of the forces of the Mahdi
in Khartoum in 1885 in Charlton Heston
played Gordon in the 1966 Hollywood epic
called cartoon this volunteer corps
morphs into the ever victorious army as
it's called the Chung Chung Jing and
it's this ever victorious army led by
General Gordon that plays a role in
supporting the efforts of lee Hong Chun
and some will find in defeating the
Taipings once and for all it said in the
final assault on Nanjing in July of 1864
over a hundred thousand rebels fought to
the death over a three-day period most
of Nanjing was utterly destroyed home
sho Chen the heavenly King had died
mysteriously of course it said possibly
by poisoning on June 1st 1864 his young
son becomes the new king and there was
some attempt made to keep things going
but by now it was curtains for the
Taiping leaders and they were all hunted
down and killed including home rent gun
and the heroes of the day were Tong Lee
and Shaw it was these three generals who
were given most of the credit for not
only defeating the Taipings but for also
breathing some life back into the Ching
and helping them to hang in there a
little bit longer and of course thoughts
on time is forever immortalized at Panda
Express magic walk and ten thousand
other Chinese restaurants for salt joint
chief General Tso's chicken
it seems the change should have been a
pushover to defeat the Taiping movement
had so much momentum why didn't they
succeed there are many reasons but chief
among them was the leadership was
good at the top you had a crazy man
surrounded by right-hand men who were
suspicious of each other and didn't get
along at all and the two key military
leaders were killed off early in the
1852 campaigns when they first marched
on Nanjing this was fun young son and
shell-shocked way the so-called southern
and western kings is so named by hong
seokchun losing these two key guys so
early in the game was a huge blow to the
movement after these two paths from the
scene all that's left are the eastern
qing young show ching and the assistant
qing sure doc i who also becomes the
Taipings greatest general but these two
lose faith in hong and of course young
is killed in a palace coup in 1856 on
Homs orders and sure doc I he splits
from the movement later on and ends up
trying to set up his own Little Kingdom
and citron province and he ends up
getting killed by change troops in 1863
so with his most important people gone
home can't rise to the occasion and the
movement hits a rough patch and the
reforms of home run gun that might have
saved them are never put into effect
another major reason for their failure
was a lack of vision and a dearth of any
kind of clear objective or direction
it's as if once the Taiping army
captured nanjing the movement ended they
sat there for a while before they
decided oh well why not finish this
whole thing in march on beijing home
also failed because he couldn't take
advantage of the whole countrywide anti
manchu sentiment he wasn't able to tap
into that energy and use it to his
advantage and position himself as an
alternative to the chain in all this
preaching about egalitarianism Common
Wealth a more evenly distributed
landholding system it sounded nice but
not all the peasants bought into the
idea and after a while the Taiping
movement began to try to raise money and
support for their armies from the
countryside and in no time at all they
were viewed as just another tax
collector and the Taiping rebels who
crowded into nanjing they made
themselves unwelcome at once the
devastation done to some parts of China
from this Taiping rebellion of 1858 een
64 were still clearly visible half a
century after it ended it's estimated 20
to 30 million people lost their lives
from the fighting and all the collateral
damage that Wars inflict on the populace
half the population of yunnan province
was killed it's between muslim revolts
plague and the general chaos at the time
over five million were lost in cuejoe
province the lower jung-soo region saw
most of the action and it was devastated
the loss of life was immense and it took
a lot of internal migration from Hunan
Hunan who Bay northern changsu to fill
up this region again I mean there was a
greater loss of life in the Taiping
rebellion than in all of World War one
and remember the four treasures the Saku
chinchou from the episode two weeks ago
chain part 3 this was the massive work
produced during the time of the Qianlong
Emperor well let's just say there was a
little Cultural Revolution that happened
during these iconoclastic times three of
the four surviving copies were destroyed
only one remains and that was the actual
one presented to Qian long the losses
that were caused by the Taiping
rebellion went far beyond human life at
the start of the Taiping rebellion in
1850 the population of China was roughly
410 million after this period that
witnessed the Taiping rebellion and the
end rebellion revolts in the southwest
in Yunnan in the northwest and Xin Jiang
from the era war and all the diseases
and natural disasters most notable the
changing of course of the Yellow River
the population of China in 1873 there's
only about 350 million when we resume
next week we'll look at the period
during the Tong chair Emperor and his
wicked mother the Empress dowager's she
this era was from 1861 1875 you have the
end of the Taiping rebellion and the
rise to power of sushi following the
Tong chair Emperor all we have left is
his cousin Guang shoe and
hoo-ee and he's done baby who ye was the
last emperor won from the oscar-winning
picture directed by bernardo bertolucci
so next week we'll focus on the torture
restoration the life of sushi tae ho and
her henchman prince bone and the princes
twin we'll also look at the ill-fated
hundred days reform much more of lee
Hong Chun and the great kang youwei
we'll look at all this as well as the
frustrating attempts to reform China in
the 1870s and up to the bitter end in
1912 we also have the sino-japanese war
the Boxer Rebellion and all kinds of
other interesting things
China is crawling with foreigners all
over the place by now so this is so this
always makes for interesting and
unpredictable events I'm not sure if
I'll be able to finish off the ching
next week but if not we'll do a part
seven and that ought to do it I
apologize to all of you who might have
found it difficult to follow the
narrative today there were so many
things going on in Chinese history
during this brief period in the 1850s
and 60s they're all sort of staggered so
I thought it would be better to
introduce all this and the way that I
did then to do five little mini podcasts
and one each event as I said when we
finished this whole China dynasty
overview we'll spend the rest of the
days of this China history podcast
series however long it's fated to run
coming back again and again to focus on
all the things we merely glanced at
briefly over the past half year and so
from a wonderfully sunny hot and
gorgeous Claremont California with our
quaint and lovely Claremont village home
to such fine and established enterprises
as Rhino Records Walters Viva Madrid the
cheese cave and the Harvard Square cafe
this is a las lo Montgomery your humble
host and narrator wishing you all a fond
and friendly farewell join us each week
won't you for another exciting episode
of the China history podcast